Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any other questions.
Nelson Mitchell: Are we gonna get a breakdown of the evening activities for next week like the post? 50'clock stuff.
Lilliana Robinson: Yep, to day.
Nelson Mitchell: No pressure. Thanks, Lily, on it. Appreciate it
Nelson Mitchell: like my better half is asking about this stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great question. I think. Yeah, you'll get it today. And just at a high level, Nelson. So you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's like III know I just paid for deposit. For what was it, bowling?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're doing bowling and stuff like that. We we got a bunch of like fun stuff planned. And obviously it's all optional. But hopefully, you all have a good time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're doing bowling. So Naji and I can beat everybody again. That's right. Yeah. Liliana and Naji wiped the floor with everyone else. Last time when we bowled so. And they're they're they're competitive individuals, I should say.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright cool. Last call any other questions.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Neil. Question on the drive up to Tahoe are, do we?
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Are we planning to stop anywhere? Or is this gonna be straight drive?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, that's a great question. So it's up to the drivers to decide if you need to take breaks or go get food, or, you know, do whatever it's kind of. We have a loose window, for when people need to arrive on the first day on that Saturday.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so so long as you get there by the evening you should be straight.
Valeria Brenner: Gotcha, and then I'm assuming this is also coming out later today. But like for rides themselves, I know, like on the form we're able to select. If we needed one or not. Will we get the kind of like
Lilliana Robinson: that on Wednesday or Thursday of the first week, so you won't know, because we handle all the rental cars, but it'll just be in accordance with what you put on the class roster, and you all sign to a carpool group, and that's usually part of the retreat. A lot of people get really close with their car pool group, and so we kind of do it randomly, and we try to keep companies together. But you also be with other people.
Valeria Brenner: that is, that is actually a great call out for just putting it in people's heads. If anybody
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is like particularly adept at driving, let me know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like, if you really like the drive or you're good at it. We might need a couple of people to help out with driving, because we have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: an impressively large group of folks that we're driving up. So if you're good at it, meaning not just in general, but you can drive either a larger vehicle, and you are comfortable driving it potentially in snow. Let me know
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause I am. But I need more people who are
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, ping me a nail on base camp, if that's you, if you're interested in driving a big car potentially in snow.
Mircea Gogoncea: how big are we doing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like like, potentially up to like a sprinter van.
Mircea Gogoncea: But yeah, I can do that, but not bigger than that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, yes, yes, II don't think we're gonna have a text, our school bus. I'm not. I'm not. We're not quite there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. One day one day life goals there we go. Very good, very good, alright. Well, I'll I'll kick this off. So I I'm gonna take the liberty of offering you all a run of show, and I'm calling it Chicago style, simply because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it originated where we came from, and a lot of my thoughts not only come from myself and my experience building businesses there, but also
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, our our good friends over at a base camp
Neal Sáles-Griffin: were the source for a lot of my philosophical outlook on managing work and getting work done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the preamble here, before I even give you the run of show
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is this was a spur of the moment
Neal Sáles-Griffin: decision to construct this as a workshop
Neal Sáles-Griffin: 2 programs ago. So I was running my maybe ninth or eighth program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And we realized a pattern that was consistent from all the classes I've ever run for decades, which is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: some founders just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are getting everything done, and there's no issues and just smooth sailing and cause they have a system in place, those Ceos somehow new, or had a background from before. Either they ran a company before they worked in efficient teams before where they knew how to organize work, go out tasks, manage projects, and just were totally on top of their game.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That is probably some of you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and if that's you, all this is going to be is a reminder and refresher of what you're already good at, and what you already know, or maybe a slightly different perspective than the one that works well for you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's another group of you, though.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who I have just as much love for
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which are folks that maybe
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have been efficient in a different context, but not in the spirit of managing an early stage startup team that's going to rapidly grow and have lots of competing priorities and challenges, especially going through an accelerator program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So for those of you who are in that category, and you may not even know whether you're in that category yet this is meant to offer you maybe a reset opportunity for you and your team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to level the playing field with the rest of your class to go. Here's how we're going to operate going into tech stars as a team, so that we're efficient. We're accountable. And we're productive
Neal Sáles-Griffin: with each other, and you know, for our goals.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that is the purpose of this workshop. I threw it together. Last year
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I taught it again this past programme with Liliana's help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And now I believe we're finally at a phase where this is going to be truly beneficial to you all. and I'll give a little bit more context before II go through some other stuff, too, but let me go through the run of show first.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're going to go through an overview of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know what we do to manage projects after. I give a little bit of a
Neal Sáles-Griffin: kind of a preamble about project management like principles and techniques, and then we'll come back together after we do an exercise where you all kind of break into breakout groups. So we just completed our small talk and run of show.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Talking about current use cases of project management within the text charge class.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then I'll talk about project management principles.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: My experience with project management. how we've used base camp at techstars Chicago in the Bay Area and then answer any questions, and that's part one for Part 2 this afternoon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which is optional but highly recommended. We're gonna get even more granular. So if you like, what you hear in the next 2 h, and you have time for more of it in the afternoon. We're gonna get even more real and get more directly personal with some of you to actually help you all implement some of the techniques that we talk about for the next hour and a half.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you want to make it even more real.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Any questions about this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright. So I love starting off with a definition of Success Island from Trohinicoff, our financial modeling. Guru, former Md. so here's the situation that I've been in, and I'm sure some of you have been in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What is my team up to what's the most important thing I need to get done today. What's falling through the cracks that I'm not thinking about?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You might know the answer to these questions. But if you don't, this is going to help you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you do, hopefully, we reinforce it. Here's the motivation
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we've been struggling like I continue to struggle with this. It's not ever a perfect process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But what we've learned has been super helpful, and it's made us quite efficient as a team, and I think Techsard has recognized that. So they've been, you know, leaning on us for a lot of extra things on top of running our own program because of it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But also I want to get to know you all better, and how you think about management and how you get things done, because at the same time, like, while we have things to share with you. some of y'all know way more than we do about a variety of things
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like everyone here is is on equal footing with respect to your different experiences. So if you have A unique lens on how you think about managing your work that could help other people. I want to hear it. I want to learn from you, and I want you to share with other people in the room
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alright desired outcome. So better understanding of how to create and improve project management and task management systems. So you can get more done with your team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm going to blaze through a bunch of words. But hopefully these principles resonate, and then we'll get real with some examples.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Projects are everywhere, all you know in every fact of the life.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But they're very simply just goals broken down into actionable chunks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So for you all, essentially as Ceos or founders are also project managers, because there's a set of projects that you need to get done. And over time, as you scale, you'll have other people doing a lot of these things and helping you with them. But right now, not only are you going to be managing the strategy of your business, but also the granular tasks that need to get done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So as far as what project management is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's just a process of creating structure around, you know, projects. That's the process.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So without the you know structure that's intentional. You're gonna waste time. You're gonna have dead end meetings. You're gonna have disorganized to do that are scattered all over the place across a variety of systems, lots of email threads and information scattered across too many different places.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the way I like to think about project management is kind of like it's cooking with the recipe. So it's not a guarantee for success, but it's at least giving you a shot at making a really great meeting and providing more consistency for it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So here's a few principles. No 2 projects are the same.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So as a manager or project leader, you're going to have to figure out how to adapt each one and what the best approach would be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there's principles that help, no matter what. So one principle is defining goals and objectives for the project. You will hear me say this a lot when I meet with you, and you say there's something you want to get done or you need help with.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, what's the project? What's the goal? What's the objective? What's the desired outcome? I'm gonna ask you that all the time. So if you leave with that it's great.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I had a meeting recently with a
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a fellow Md. Who's otherwise awesome. But there was a moment where, you know. They asked for my time. They wanted some help, and I said, Hey, what are we trying to get done? And they didn't quite have a clear answer yet.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I wrote down afterwards, like, I'm going to politely provide feedback to this person about taking 25 min of someone else's time to kind of waffle through, not being sure of what you want.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because you should leave the meeting and conversation by stating the objective so that we can get it done. Otherwise we won't. We don't need to be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's your North star,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and as far as goals, it's for 3 things. You're activating effort in your team. If you don't organize project properly, you are paying a lot of money and and spending a lot of resources on someone who could otherwise be delivering a lot more for you if you had it more organized.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You're directing them into relevant activities, and you're making sure that they can persist over optical.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the other thing. Sometimes you pay someone to help you or you. They join your team and they get stuck. and then they get nervous and they don't know how to bring it up to you that they have a problem that they need help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you have to put systems in place that offer them the assurance that they're going to either be able to make this kind of decision on their own as best they can, or there's a system in place for them to check with you before they move forward. And you've made that very clear.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: ensuring alignment. So project goals. You know, making sure they're aligned with company goals and direction. I think I mentioned this last week when we talked about jobs to be done, and how effective it is. Once you know the job, you can align everyone at the company around what there is to get done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  so defining success for that and making sure everyone's on the same page about it is super important. So the fulfillment of a business need is the key.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's a lot of projects that when you do triage, and you realize with limited time and resources, you have to. you know, choose one thing or over another, or one thing over many other things.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What is the ultimate business need that you're facing? And how do you make sure that you've directed more of your energy or most of it to those priorities, and you accept the ramifications of leaving the rest behind.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So, for example.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: techstars often ends up on the chopping block for some companies that have competing priorities when there's an urgent moment.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you all might have something where there's like a current situation with your business. Either it's an opportunity. Or it's a major problem.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've had founders reach out to me and be like, Hey, we need a financial model for you because we're trying to help you with your investor. Prep and readiness, and they're like, look
Neal Sáles-Griffin: by. CTO has to leave the company.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We're kind of in triage mode, hair on fire. We need help. We got to figure this out. I don't have time to finish the financial model this week. I'm really sorry.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All good. Let's talk about redirecting your energy to support you, to get what you need done. We'll put pause on what we've asked you to do, and we'll get back to it when you're ready and we'll support you with your immediate business need.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's actually happened. And there's plenty other examples like that that come up
Neal Sáles-Griffin: project team. So knowing who to work with is probably one of the most important and sensitive things. This
Neal Sáles-Griffin: may or may not be a challenge for you. Now I guarantee. As you grow it will become a like an ever increasing, an exponential problem. For all the businesses that I've invested in, who have, you know, either taken off or on the trajectory right now, where they're either raising off the capital.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: increasing profitability or both.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Eventually I always get the call of. I can't hire people fast enough. I need help.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And there's so many things living through the cracks because of it. So talent becomes a problem. Once you are either well resourced or your business starts to get a lot of significant traction. And you realize systems start to break down that were otherwise. Okay, when you didn't have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a huge inflow of business happening.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So being ready and putting the systems in place now, not because you need it now, because your team, most of your team could probably work really efficiently, just with post-it notes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? In a simple Google, Doc, you could probably run your business like that right now. But what about
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a few months from now, or a few years from now? So if you set the foundation now culturally, so that you have the right systems in place to deal with scale, you will benefit from it both now and later.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  also communication and listening. So you like one of the issues, sometimes collaborating with folks is making sure when you bring your team on that, you're either training them or screening them for effective communication and writing skills.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The reason this is important is a lot of the times. People have different work styles.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but the company needs to put reliable systems in place for how to work. So with everyone having different preferences for how you like to be communicated to, and how you like to work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: How do you consolidate those preferences into a system that's consistent for your company, culturally.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that being said, one tip I learned over a decade ago from another business was to always either hire great writers, or invest in making the people who join your team good writers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because if you're a good writer, what that saves you on is having lots of unnecessary meetings and live conversations, because folks are more comfortable, writing down their thoughts, premeditating what they have to say, thinking it through, and then sharing it asynchronously for folks to review review before you have a live conversation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Making sure you have clearly defined roles and responsibilities. This is a huge problem with techstars, companies, and early-page founders in general.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a lot of the times. They'll ask you all what your job is, or what you do as CEO or otherwise, and you'll kind of like ramble off a bunch of stuff about what you're doing. But you may not have a clear idea of what you do versus what someone else does at this stage.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and even if it's imperfect.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would implore you to revisit whatever your version of that is to make sure you're on the same page for who the decision maker is for any given project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So then you've got all this sorted out time to give you, you know the tasks and get to work. There are 2 kind of recommended pathways on our side. One is to have the leader figure it out and divide and conquer kind of play in the quarterback.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The other option is to do it as a group and allow everyone to offer up buy-in for what they want to do. I've exercised both techniques all the time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one example for the first one is typically when program is kicking off.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've been doing a lot of work directly with Liliana, for example, to have her own a lot of the execution of program over the years, and we very often clear things and have her be the leader and point, person and decision maker for a lot of things that used to be either my decision or or my influence
Neal Sáles-Griffin: alternatively.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We also have a lot of associates and a lot of contractors that help us out for each of our exercise programs, and sometimes rather than describing exactly what we want them to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when I know someone's really smart and talented and special, and we want them to be involved. We're not quite sure how I'll ask them to share with me what role they like to play in this project that we're trying to get done, whether that's mentor madness. Whether that's the overall program, whether it's demo day. And once I understand their preferences and strengths, I may share a few additional tips on either what we think they should be or what we need them to do on top of what they suggested. And then we finalize it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I think that's been a very helpful, subtle, managerial technique on my end, where I let the people I work with identify what they think would make them happy to do, and then I usually tend to more fed into the needs of the company or to the to the project that we need to get done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the group centered approach empowered the team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to delegate their own tasks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the leadership one where you're kind of doling it out is beneficial, especially when you have a time constraint.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or there's something that's very time like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: either, not time bound, but like Mission critical, I guess is what I'm looking for. The words for so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: finally developing norms. So how would you work together? How often will you meet? How will you make decisions? And what will you use to communicate. Obviously, all of you have different answers to this at your businesses. But if you have different answers with team members
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that might deserve some
Neal Sáles-Griffin: revision.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because you want to be on the same page for what everyone's commitment will be as you work on a given project and task. And if you're constantly trying to play different games with different people who need to be on the same page with how they work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would advise you to consider having a new conversation about that consolidating your efforts. Some of you probably do daily stand-ups. Some of you might be more like my team where we don't have any standing meetings.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: literally no standing meetings like there's no meeting on my calendar that's like every week or every other week where we have to like all be in the same room to talk.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which I think throws a lot of people off, because that's the rare, you know thing to operate with efficiently. But I can share more about how in a bit.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But spell out the specifics of how you're gonna work together from the beginning.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, after you've done all this create a project roadmap. So a roadmap which I think you all know is just a way to understand the milestones of where you're trying to go and how to get there so relevant deliverables. Who's responsible? What the timelines look like? Do your best there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And that shared plan for, you know, getting to your goal. It's the vision, the priorities, and the steps you need to take. I say all this, and these words make sense. But how thoughtful and how granular
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are we being really with those steps? Once we understand the vision and the priority.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we're gonna do a few exercises today to kind of demonstrate the potential in getting even more specific
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then identifying metrics for success. So you all know this. You all know what kpis are. We asked you for this during the pre-programmed stuff, and you probably already knew about it already as founders. And it's more of a well-known thing since I think the mid 2,000.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But, Api, some examples of them are like, you know how much time you're going to spend on a project
Neal Sáles-Griffin: any given week or day. How many hours compared to you know other things that you need to do with the business? Product, customer satisfaction.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: feedback complaints cost. Roi. Examples of this could be things like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like. There's one thing for sure, that's being extended as you are running your project on your team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that's your personnel's time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which is money. So there's one very simple thing which is like, how much of their time relative to how much money we're paying them. Are they spending doing this as opposed to other? So you can even measure that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, sorry, Bob. I'm moving too fast with the slides.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I apologize. I just want to give you the text because I want to get real. So I apologize. But if you all need to, are there any questions so far. Let me slow down, cause I'm just like running through this, because I think it's like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it feels like a review.
Lilliana Robinson: Interrupt with questions as much as you'd like. We love fielding questions. So we know it's a lot. But we're kind of counting on you to slow us down where you have questions.
Bob Van Dell: II appreciate the pace. I'll I'll catch up with the recording later if I have to. I think that's why recordings exist. So thank you all good, Bob? No, but just so, you know, if that like, you're speaking up in a way that probably some people also felt but didn't have the energy to speak up yet. So I appreciate I get. I get known for that. I'm trying to just take it up. And
Bob Van Dell: you know you think, and you talk faster than you can write for sure. 100. I already see a couple of hands. So let's go, Christy, and then Mark.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: So we have some things in place, and all these things are are great.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: will we get some guidance on how we can kind of assimilate things that make sense for us. So that we're gonna do that today? Okay, live?
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Well, thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's common mark.
Mark Kirzhner: Can they look on the slides later? Will we have them in the in the base, so you'll you'll have the recording which has the slides, and then you can do whatever you want with them. From there.
Mark Kirzhner: I see. Okay, not the slice themselves. Just the the video. Okay?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright. Communicate effectively. This is the last one last principle, I swear. And then I have a few final things to talk about, like the benefits of project management, and then we'll move into
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like a little bit of a story for me. So stakeholders.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: business leaders, investors. right? Xr team, other people.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so this becomes especially relevant when you have a board of directors. So eventually some of you will, especially if you're planning to raise significant capital
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when you're at the series. The seat to series a stage especially Series A,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you have a board. The board matters. The Board can fire you as a CEO, like your communication, your documentation, your protocol, are going to be essential.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: your success and progress. So keep that in mind. and then
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's see, what else do I have here? I think I might be able to just jump to the last part.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. So yeah, like, I said, there's no one way to do it. So what you're gonna hear from us today, like, I've kind of already said, is one perspective. So just know that I it almost it almost feels as sensitive as like religion or politics.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like project management styles tools, preferences for what people think is the right way to do it. Agile waterfall, base, camp, slack like whatever like. I'm like agnostic.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have the tools that I use, and I share them. But by no means do I project that onto you as what you need to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  So, giving you a foundation for your team and depending on your projects. Some are more important than others.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is, it's gonna hopefully help you all. So keep your employees happy is another benefit from project management. giving your team a clear understanding of how their, what success looks like, and how their performance is going to be measured
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and offering up a sense of purpose and setting clar expectations with them so that they can do their best work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It also keeps your stakeholders happy. So if you are doing. B, 2 B. You can consider some of your customers like a client.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so providing ways for them to see what you're doing or how you're doing it for them, or giving them a little bit more confidence that you have your. You know your your act together can make a huge difference. And then, lastly, it'll improve your focus.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it gives you all that efficiency that you need to be like operating under early on that can be a signal to investors that these are the kinds of founders that I can trust with my money, even if they need to dramatically shift their business model over time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So few methodologies. I just alluded to waterfall. Add dial, scrum, lean shape up list goes on and on. Right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But what's important is for you to choose what works best for your situation, your business and your team? And just be open to reevaluating and changing. You know your method, depending on your your circumstance.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But there's also challenges. Right? So how do you decide which one to put time and resources into? So some questions that are helpful is like is the problem important doesn't matter, and if so, how much does it matter?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is it the right appetite? How much time are you willing to bet on this? Is it 3 days? Is it 6 weeks? Is it one year.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then is this the right time for it, or in this wait. How urgent is this relative to some of the other urgent matters that we need to address right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one benefit from going into techstars is that a lot of founders
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we're thinking about going into a fundraise. Then they get accepted in the textbook.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then they go. Actually, it might make sense for me to wait until after the program
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to to now make that a priority. And now I can actually afford time to work on other aspects of my business that I wasn't sure I could now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what's really helpful is like investors give you all a lot of grace because you're going through a text program. So what's really cool is you, could you actually use this experience
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to run experiments that you would otherwise be judged for if you weren't going through an accelerator like ours.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So they go. Oh, well, what's up with this dip in revenue, or or why are your metrics changing so much over the time period. What's this? Blip in your little happy spreadsheet with your like the bar graph. And you're like, well, that's when we went through tech start.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We ran these different experiments. We tried a different strategy. And then we did this, that and they go, oh, okay, that makes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's actually a really helpful kind of cover for you to like. Take more risks and make a few more bets in some ways that you may have been less comfortable. Doing so beforehand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: avoiding scope. Creep.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm sure you all know what this is. I know the tech people in the room do like anybody who's done software, engineering or product development.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Scope creep is is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: very dangerous.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  it's when the goal of the project shifts after it's already underway. So you're like, Oh, we actually need to do this instead, or we need to do more, or we need to, you know, do some of this on top of that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And unfortunately, when you have so many different
Neal Sáles-Griffin: competing priorities. How do you incorporate them in a way that's actually structured and methodical. so imposing limitations on what you're willing to do versus not do for a given project is also super important.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does anybody have any thoughts or suggestions on a good way to impose a limitation on a project so that you're not taking.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know, on too much, or experiencing Stoke Creek.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What have you done in the path to avoid taking on too much.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob.
I worked in a lot of different types of
Bob Van Dell: whether they're program management methodologies or software development methodologies from waterfall scrum. And technically, canvan isn't one of them. But people have used canvan for software development. I don't hold it against them.
Bob Van Dell: But one of the ideas I try to keep in mind. Since I've been a tech. Lead on many teams as well is. There's kind of 3 things that you lockdown. You have your scope, you have your due date, and you have the amount of resources that can contribute to delivering the committed to scope by the due date. And if you wanna change scope you have to give on
Bob Van Dell: the other 2 as well. They're essentially a a triangle that you know, triangulate and keep each other stable. So if you want to increase scope, you have to either increase resources or change the due date, but also the folks who are doing the work are the ones making the commitment to the due date and the scope from the outset, and then more of the agile environments. And so I'm not trying to pick on, you know, Vince knows this product managers, but like usually scope, creep comes from somewhere.
Bob Van Dell: So, understanding where that comes from and negotiating, maybe not now, but later and and working on that skill set and establishing those communication norms is one of the things you could do to help manage it. And then, if it continues to be a problem for your team.
Bob Van Dell: shortening your due date durations like the buckets of your iterations like, instead of doing a 2 week sprint. Do a one week sprint so that you could be a bit more flexible, and it's less
Bob Van Dell: costly to try to increase. Scope can help. But you still want to address where that scope creep, ask is coming from
Bob Van Dell: as part of your like team retros and norms to say, like, we gotta get better at this because we wanna be predictable. We wanna be consistent. And we wanna also deliver the most value as soon as possible.
Bob Van Dell: They're sometimes in contention with each other. So being on the same page about that as a team, I think, is super useful versus having it come directly from a Pm. Or only the Pm. Or engine manager is the one who's responsible for thinking about it. And the rest of the team are just doers.
Bob Van Dell: You want a team that's more than just
Bob Van Dell: human resources.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: III mean you. You said it so. Well, Bob, I appreciate you, and and just to reiterate something I heard you say that II strongly agree with II think, making sure that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You manage
Neal Sáles-Griffin: different expectations when the situation changes cause you can't just go. We're gonna change the scope of the project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have different things to do now, but we're not addressing the fact that the due date hasn't changed or the resources haven't changed, or the people involved in their expectations haven't changed. All of those things get adjusted when you make the adjustment to the desired outcome or the expectation. That's a really great point. Thank you. Nelson.
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah. I'd say that.
Nelson Mitchell: You know I've been exposed to a lot of good project management, and where I struggle a little bit is in the in the startup context. How much? Just enough right cause like when you're working with clients as a consultant right? You set up this whole program management apparatus and your
Nelson Mitchell: wasting untold hours on just communication and documentation. And then the startup, like you kind of want to move faster. You don't wanna like, just spend a lot of time writing about the thing you want to do the thing
Nelson Mitchell: and so I've been sort of like
Nelson Mitchell: on both edges of the spectrum, right like really locked down. Change management. Blah! Blah blah, you know. And then over here, like Lucy Goosey. Everybody's just running around doing whatever they want. And I'm trying to figure out like where the needle is. That ideal thing that balance to strike.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay? And and you know what might be helpful. Nelson is taking stock of where you're at today, and then we can all react and respond to it
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so hopefully. And maybe I'll count on you to to to share more about where you're at when I have, when I make the call for examples.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we'll give that a shot, but would love to work with you on that, because, like you like, you said. And I said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: everyone's situation is different. So even at the startup phase, even in our little context, like, we're all not created equal in this sense, like, we're all startups. Sure, we're all going through tech stars. Sure. But we have very different businesses.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So some of you might need different structures and different systems because of that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: awesome alright. So here's my recommendation for avoiding scope. Creep
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is don't just say it in a meeting, and hope that someone is going to do it. Get everything in writing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: if you get it in writing all of a sudden, there's no more confusion about what someone said they would do versus what's getting done, what the priority was versus what it is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If it's in writing, you can go back to and go. Well, this is what was said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? Let's revise what we're saying or how thorough we're explaining what we're going to do. If for some reason there's something broken about what we agreed to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Also, we mentioned setting appetite. This is language that we're borrowing from, you know, shape up which we're gonna read together in the Book club. And
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for those of you interested, even outside of that. That's a methodology for for product development that we teach here. But making sure that you have balancing, you know, protocols, for when you extend deadlines versus when you don't, how to reassess the goal versus sticking to it and staying true to it. And what have you? And also understanding the true costs. So time I mentioned this earlier, but like time-based
Neal Sáles-Griffin: allocation of resources. So at the minimum, you're spending
Neal Sáles-Griffin: real money on people's time to do work in different projects. So you have to understand what the slunk cost might be. and knowing where to stop and when to stop.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So keeping these principles and tools in mind as you move forward, is going to help you with strategy, and I'll get a little bit more personal. Now about my own background in this
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but just know that over time your thinking on this might shift as mine has.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I've struggled through project management ever since I was in college. You'll hear my story next weekend hopefully for those of you coming. I hope most of you, if not all of you are coming. There's usually a gap in the founders that hear my story on varnish at that week. At that retreat versus the ones you hear a different context.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  Does anyone remember
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this device?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The palm trio? You remember the palm trio? Who knows the palm? Nelson knows the palm trio? So this was like, my super weapon back in the day. So this is 2,005,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think 2,006. Yeah, around, then is when Google docs. Beta went out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I was like one of the early users of Google Docs when they launched.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I managed to like, Get the Google Excel spreadsheets to show up in my palm trio as a whole full nerd when I started my first business, so when I was 18 years old we raised a quarter 1 million in angel capital, and I'm driving around the State of Illinois.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: going into doctors, offices, selling with my Bluetooth plantronics, headset my ridiculous suit and time 18 years old, trying to look older than I am driving my dad's 1986 Volvo Station wagon that was about to fall apart. So that was me driving around trying to do business in healthcare, you know, and and and doctor's offices.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But with that being said, Google Docs was my first like true tool for project management. When I got started. I have a photo I can. I can share. I can. I'll I'll dig it up. I'll show you a photo back. Then it's pretty ridiculous then, as you all might know many years later, like 5 years later. So I started a a coding school, and I use this. This tool called backpack
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which was one of the product suites from 37 signals back in the day, which helped them a base camp.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  so this was actually a backpack screenshot. I'm not sure why base camp is highlighted. But I took an old screenshot of that tool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Then afterwards, or while I was doing that, I tried another tool called Huddle.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is like, you can see the dates like this is like 2010
Neal Sáles-Griffin: back then. So I used another tool. And then, does anyone know this tool?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Does this look familiar to anybody. any coders in the room?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What is this? What app is this?
Burhan Syed: It's similar. Looks like a thriller
Neal Sáles-Griffin: pivotal tracker. Who's that? Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's way back. So pivotal tracker was like my thing, like, I broke down
Neal Sáles-Griffin: everything in my life in pivotal tracker. So I basically have my little combon board or whatever. And then something really cool happened
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and base camp
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and 37 signals decided to invest in my company, and when they did, one of the things that they asked me to do with my business is teach some of their team members
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the web framework that they had invented as a company. But they had a lot of people working at the company that were nontechnical. So I taught Ruby on rails
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to the company that invented Ruby on rails. It was very, very strange, but awesome! And one of the tools that came out of it from one of their team members. Their employees was this app called Dayboard.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which was basically a way to like have a very simple
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to-do list like, what am I going to do today? And it was like one place where it lived? It was a really cool, like thing, and II worked with him on on building it out, and he ended up leaving the company and like turning this into his own thing and doing a few other entrepreneurial projects.
Another thing that I chanced upon that a lot of folks asked me about when it comes to productivity is this thing called
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the Pomodoro technique. I know some of you said it with me. So this was when I was learning how to code. This was like my secret weapon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I believe a Ph. D. Student somewhere wrote a book because he developed a studying methodology that allowed him to make a lot of progress by
Neal Sáles-Griffin: working in 25 min increments with 5 min breaks instead the 4, and then taking a 30 min break. So it became this like very quantifiable means for me to manage and monitor my own productivity, and I turned it into like a system in a game for the team I was working with when we were like learning how to code and and starting the first coding school
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so highly recommended it. It takes
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a special kind of person to like truly leverage it and stay true to it, because there's a lot of technical verifications to what a pomodoro is versus what it isn't. For example. Some people claim that they work in 25 min increments interrupted. But you check your phone when you get notifications. You take phone calls. You take, you know, breaks, or you step aside. You open up other apps and windows. That's not a pomodoro. Y'all just so, you know, but happy to nerd out about that later.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Email. We all use that for productivity. Google Docs, base camp huddle, pivotal tracker, base camp, 2 base camp, 3 basecamp, 4
Neal Sáles-Griffin: lots of tools that I just presented to you. But before I continue.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what are your tools, and why do you use them? I want to hear from a few folks that are passionate about whatever your favorite app tools and methodologies might be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can call out a few of them. I'm just curious. Want to get to know you better.
m3: I'm I'm a linear guy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, yeah, I know linear. So a few found few that's been on the rise lately, especially for the more tech oriented and heavy projects. Right? Linear done a lot of good stuff.
m3: Yeah, it's a it's a got a really cool integration with with. And I do my own.
m3: Get
m3: implementation I use get t instead of github. Just self hosted deal there. So yeah, that's kind of my stack.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, yeah, II I'm I'm super curious. I haven't tried linear myself. But I've most of the Cpos that I've interacted with have been huge fans. It's really like. It's a great experience that's awesome.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm seeing notion things. Things have been around for a long time. Things was like 2,009, 2010. I remember when I, the first one, came out. I use it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anyone else.
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: I use forests.
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: I think it has. It enables you to set similar to Pomodoro, but it enables you to set time for projects. But then you can set 60 min, 1 h, 3 h, and then for each of the time you plant it for something like that. But it's a very nice app for productivity.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah. Tools are so much fun to play with, and when new ones come out you get excited. So I saw on the chat. I think there was like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: trello and cheera.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't know if I saw Asana, but that usually comes up a lot. Clickup is another good one. I saw old school J. Lo! Pen and paper right like just like very simple writing it down.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Notion is. Obviously, I think that's the tool of choice for a lot of tech stars programs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: before I talk about how we use base camp to run our tech starch team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I want to offer up a little bit of context, because the example I'm sharing with you is when I was, I think, at Peak
Neal Sáles-Griffin: project, management, prowess protect their Chicago.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and the reason I'm doing that is because I don't want to confuse you. because when we joined the Bay Area in the fall.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: our team accomplished the very unique feat
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of running free programs across 3 different cities at the same time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which have never been done before.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: will very likely never be done again. It went well. I think our founders were satisfied with the experience, and we use a very
Neal Sáles-Griffin: intense version of this to manage
Neal Sáles-Griffin: multiple different cities at the same time for project management.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So rather than share that madness of complexity that Liliana and I and others had to kind of construct.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm gonna focus just on one program because that's how we operate. We're operating, going forward. And that's how we operate previously. And there was this blip in time for the past 6 months or so. That was a little crazy. But if you really wanna know or see it. I'm happy to walk you through that some other time. But it was. It was kinda cool. Just think of like 2 or 3 X orders of magnitude I'm about to show you. And that's what we kinda had to manage across 3 programs in 3 cities at once. So here's the bird's eye view of how I think about project management for tech stars.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Which is obviously gonna be different for all you all with your startup teams. But at a high level in basecamp like Liliana showed you. She has lots of projects that you don't. Here's what we had in Chicago. So we had a leadership group with like kind of our top level strategy.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We had our Jp. Morgan program team. So that was like our Jp. Morgan Chicago program for Techstar, and we had a program team, for you know Cade and Sophie. And you know Brad and Anthony at the time, who are now like Naji and and Chloe folks like that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have our eir, their entrepreneurs and residents, where we had a place for them as well, where we supported them and talked to them about how the founders are doing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  We had a place for the Ceos which we have here. We have a place where we were running hybrid. So some of the founders who were
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in person all the time meaning in market like, it's for those of you staying in Oakland or staying in San Francisco throughout the program might want to create a different space for you, because you're doing more on the ground or in permanent things than others.
We had our book club.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We had a few projects. So program off documentation, portfolio and alumni support. So that's where the 100 plus companies that we've worked with so far, we have a ticket system where we kind of work on their needs, taking in their investor updates, their emails, their request to us, and how we manage and dole out those priorities and responsibilities.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We have a sort thing project. So that's to make sure that we're actually seeking out the right founders and getting them to apply to our program. And then on top of that, Liliana myself and Sophie run the Rising Stars Fund at tech Arts, which is kind of a low-key.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like kind of not quite
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as public or prominent fund, but we raised it. We invest through it. We have founders in many of these classes like Christie, who have, you know, received investment from that fund.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And then, last, but not least, and this is just a bonus for myself, along with Liliana. And now Sophie is we also teach at the University, so I teach at Northwest University, at the business school and at the engineering school. So those are a couple extra projects for those classes.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But that's everything everywhere, all at once for me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright! That's like my whole life
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that my work. I have it all broken into thoughtful projects. So when I think about what needs to be done, I don't need to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: go to sleep stressed out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't need to walk down the street worried about where something is or what needs to be done. I have a home
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for literally my entire work, life and priorities, and that home should hold whatever I need to put in it rather than it living with free in my head.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So at the leadership level at the top level, which many of you probably have. A version of. That was when I was working directly with, you know my program team at the time was Aliana, another individual by the name of Brad Schitzer, who you're Gonna meet next week. And then Anthony Alipra, who's still in Chicago helping run those programs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is where we, at a very, very high level.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: set the direction for what we want to get done so if you zoom in a little bit, and you notice under to do you see this little hill chart.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and you can see, like the biggest of big rocks that aren't actually as clearly defined. Where, when you look at them now, you're not quite sure what to think of them. Right? So it's almost the name of of of a team or a project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So are these over the line over the hill, if you will, and we're tracking the progress over time for each of these projects.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the breakdown of this, though, is very similar to if you look at Chicago, Jpm. 2023 program team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that cascades down into a set of goals to do lists and tasks for us. So in a very separate space from this leadership place where we're tracking our high level strategic priorities. I go down one layer deeper to that specific project. Chicago, Jpm, 2023 program team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I have a whole list of what needs to get done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And in this list our other list.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you notice the person assigned to a lot of those seduce at the time was liana. So what we did for the program is we were laying out week by week everything that needs to happen
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for this program to run effectively. and as we break that down
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there are dedicated places for these to do that are listed here to be spelled out into more discrete and granular steps.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Here's what it looks like at a slightly high level. So I just zoomed into one place right? I went from here to Chicago, Jpm, 2020 program team. And I'm showing you this list. But there's also this thing called the Hill Chart.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that zooms out one step higher to show you the scope of the work that we're trying to manage for the program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, can you go back to where we have, like all the weeks? Yeah, this hierarchy piece is really the main piece of what makes this project management strategy that we're showing you so different and unique.
Lilliana Robinson: The top level view that Neil sees of a programme allows him or any CEO of a start up to effectively know what's going on from a bird's eye view without being bogged down by the minutia.
Lilliana Robinson: So there are a lot of different things that go on in each of those weeks that is spelled out in the program team project. But Neil doesn't need to know those things.
Lilliana Robinson: He just needs to know if Demo Day invites our ship. If Week 8 is planned and executed, he doesn't need to see all of that. So this is something that I see a lot of Ceos doing. Because you guys wear so many hats. You have to trust team members. You have to be able to delegate, and then just let them give you a bird's eye view, instead of having your mind all the way down kind of through the entire
Lilliana Robinson: hierarchy of tasks.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yes, and Liliana and I had a conversation about what it means to check off one of these top level to dues. What does it mean to check off? Week 7. What does it mean that week? 7 is planned
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? You can't just say that it's planned, and I hope that you're right. We have to define together what those parameters are of what planned means plan. I believe. Only I correct me if I'm wrong, means
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that you all get the weekly what to expect message on Friday afternoon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you get that message that explains what the plan is for the next week. That's when we mark the thunk.
Lilliana Robinson: any food being ordered. Basically, all the OP. Stuff is done as well. And we discussed that beforehand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Right? Bob.
Bob Van Dell: yeah. 2 things. One, I'm gonna put a finer point on what you guys just said, coming from
Bob Van Dell: career of software development. We call that the definition of done. And as a team, what that means means. Everybody has the same idea that they're not just throwing something over the wall and thinking it's done like as a team, we commit to that whole thing being done, tested, deployed method. But then, question.
Bob Van Dell: is this hill thing like this is new to me, but I think it it's very interesting. Is that essentially like breaking down all of those lists of lists and projects of projects. And then, as you burn down that entire body of work, is that how you? Okay, that's cool. Yeah, yeah. So so you you're getting up the hill to figure things out and lay it all out, because when you start a list it's never the full list.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you think you have it all laid out like this is exactly we need to do. Then you start doing it. And then the list starts to grow
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because there were unanticipated tasks and factors that you didn't know initially. But as you began working, come up. So that's the figuring things out phasing getting over the hill, and then once you're over it. Making it happen is getting all the work done. Once you have a better and clearer idea of what needs to be accomplished.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the notion of getting over the hill.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So one thing I alluded to very quickly here, though, is I talk about projects. But yet there's also this thing called teams, right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So their themes and their projects. How do we reconcile? How do you manage a group of people who have a more consistent need to have a dedicated place to manage work versus specific initiatives that are time bound. That should be done when they're done, and then you move on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's 2 different constructs that we operate with right. So we have dedicated teams, and then we have specific projects that may have a variety of of needs and and parameters around them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So our program team has a different, a slightly different structure than what a given specific project would. And then the ability to track progress over time gets into the more granular state with that hill chart. So before I showed you all the hill chart here, where it's like my high level. This is Neil's kind of bird's eye view.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then here, at the more granular level. This is where Liliana at the time was operating, managing our team members to get work done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: myself included.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So these are just a list of of some of the examples of what we were trying to get over the hill.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as you saw, there were plenty of things that already made it over the hill between weeks 0 and 7 that are no longer here, because one of the goals of any given to do list is to archive it. When you're done to be done with it, to move on, you can always go back and check to see your progress. But it doesn't have to clutter the space that you're in anymore. So we're always looking forward as opposed to backward.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So we get all these laid out
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then now on the sourcing front. Here's another example of of something I think is really helpful is like observing our portfolio companies and how we're supporting them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you might see, like, this is kind of how we manage like we we call our tech start program season.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you may have noticed on the Intro 5 when you joined this meeting. I had seasons 10 and 11 for Oakland.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's kind of like a reality show, if you will, except my own private like, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: workshop that I get to watch. That's what you all are, cause all. We all are crazy and hilarious. You'll see next week, I'm sure. But it's just like always entertaining that being said. We wanna make sure that we're tracking everything going on with you all, and how we're supporting you, and what request you make of us versus? What request you make of the greater network that we can help monitor and manage
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I'll be the first to say, like, we still have a lot of work to do to do a better job here. Sometimes it's been robust, other times it's kind of falling off, and we just kinda like play whack-a-mole and responding requests and get it done, and don't document it as well as we could or should. So there's still a lot of room to, you know. Grow there. However, what this does
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is it allows headspace. It gives me the peace of mind where I can see everything in one place. No longer am I walking around with the burden of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: worrying about what I've forgotten to do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: right? Oh, there's that other thing, or oh, they need me to do that, or I can work on this thing. And instead, what I do is this really special thing is, I'll click my stuff
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in base camp, and then I'll see all of my work
Neal Sáles-Griffin: laid out. So I know what I need to get done in a given week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is an old screenshot from, you know, last year. But this is what I had going on that week when I was presenting this for the first time to founders.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so I had like kind of like a layout of all of my tasks and priorities, all organized in one single place, that allowed myself to see what I need to get done on that day, and throughout the rest of the week very, very clearly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Another thing that's been really powerful for us is asynchronous communication. So the way we've managed to do that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is something. I also learned from Jason over at Base Camp, which is, I use these automatic check-ins. This is a tool in base camp, but it's something that you all do in some form or another. Already you either do it because you have standup meetings, you have weekly meetings, or you have people write an update in slack or some other way of communicating this. Here's our way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are you working on this week that the bottom left one that kicks off the week. All right. What's everyone up to this week they lay that out at the end of each day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Monday, through Thursday. What'd you get done
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at the start of every morning Tuesday through Friday. What are you working on today
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at the end of the week
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on Friday? Would you work on this week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this encapsulate all of the work. and it does it in a very succinct and helpful way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So now we're no longer bogged down with having to have round robbing conversations about what we're working on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You've taken the time to think through and write down what you have going on. You share it with your team, and it allows the team to go. Wait. But what about this thing
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that you didn't write down? That, I think, is important for you to understand what's going on this week, or work on, or prioritize.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or someone sees what you say you're going to do. And they go actually, that thing that you're saying you're going to do. I think I can do that instead. And maybe this will free you up to focus on the other thing that's important to you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Maybe I can lend a hand.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so it allows us to communicate with each other, to understand what's on each other's plates, and then lend a helping hand and or add additional work if we realize that there's either space to do so or it's important to do so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This seems simple. but it's a lot of work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and it's really hard to stay true to. I can't tell you how many times as a team we have fallen off from being consistent about providing these updates because of how hard it can be, because so many things come up in your your lives or with your work that can derail you from having the discipline and the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: bandwidth to make this a priority on any given day.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I know what I'm sharing with you. Here is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: hope, probably for many and more aggressive than what most would prefer. But I have found this to be such a time. Saver like it's like probably one of the ultimate, like kind of project or or leadership managerial life hacks that I've experienced. Bob.
Bob Van Dell: Yeah, sorry if I'm monopolizing the conference. I had a mentor. Tell me I should be very generous. Throughout the accelerator as much as I can.
Bob Van Dell: So II love what you're talking about here, and and one of the things that I try to keep in mind as part of this exercise is, I'm I'm sure other folks who've done software engineering jobs are worked in an agile context, are used to the idea of a daily scrum or a daily stand up.
Bob Van Dell: and the the value being that synchronization of highlighting like you said, unblock like blockers to help each other get unblocked, but also the point being ensuring that we're all still pulling in the same direction, and as a group with our shared commitments
Bob Van Dell: helping each other move forward as much as we can. Adding the asynchronous component to it, makes it even more effective, because then you don't have to disrupt, like your state of flow to do this. But the value of having regular synchronizations about what we are all working on? And are we still all pulling in the same direction? Or are we veering off? And that level of accountability combined with the ability to. You know, I need support over here, like, you know, cover my right flank, or whatever like the way you wanna do that is.
Bob Van Dell: enables us to get even more done, even more focused and and like, stack our waves on top of each other and magnify our collective output versus what a meeting might do where we're all paused just to talk about something synchronously and like, if you're used to thinking in computer science terms like doing this asynchronously is, is even more powerful. As long as you're still
Bob Van Dell: keeping, you know, aligned and and synchronized.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Bob, I appreciate you feel free to be generous with your thoughts. I love people who participate cause the fact that you spoke up just gave space for Antonio Brian and Matthew to raise their hand and speak up as well. So, at the very least, that was worth it, just for that. But I also agree with your perspective. So thank you for that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Let's hear from you guys. Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: I see this a really powerful tool. Frankly. And you know, one thing that I've been struggling is the fact that because we are bootstrapping, we'd be bootstrapping until now is, you know, we
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: we have a few, quite a few con contractors who have a full time job. And you know, helping us a few, few, few hours a week. And I think this is gonna really organize the entire team to do a synchronous work and be more if feature and effective
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: in the work we do. Now. One question I have. When I look at my base camp, I don't see all these features. I like that graph that heal graph.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: And I think, is it because I need to sign up I need to create an account just for my team is that. And and I invite everyone in my team, or I can use the the word technology. I'm still trying to getting familiar with base camp.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: No problem. So all of the features that you've seen
Neal Sáles-Griffin: are available to you right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But they're hidden in places because we're not trying to overwhelm you with too much at once.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause it can be overwhelming to learn a new tool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that being said Lily, I don't know. I'm not sure if you're able to speak up, but I don't know if the the the base camp tutorial kind of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: list that you made originally still available where people learn the ins and outs of that to be a pro user.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I made a, it's it's about a year out of date, because there. I haven't gone.
Lilliana Robinson: but everybody here has access to Hiltcharts. You just have to enable it by clicking the 3 dots when you, when you're looking at your page of to dos. You just click the 3 dots in the top right? If that's something that you'd like to experiment with.
Lilliana Robinson: And if anyone wants to go through the tutorial I've made. It's extremely in depth. It would come up as a separate project that I would add you to, and it's just 2 sets of to do lists that you can go through at your own pace. There are a couple of things that are out of date, but it's pretty much still, like extremely helpful. I had some people last program go through it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Great Brian.
Brian | Circle+: Yeah. Sort of curiosity. Does different reporting styles come into context here, you know, like some people might be very
Brian | Circle+: reserved in writing, you know. Their reports and other people may give too much information kind of thing is standardizing a reporting stuff, something we should consider when taking this approach thing. I would say, Brian, because I think what happens is
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'll give you an example. So not Nazi on our team
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is more of like out in the field right with what he does like. He's out there trying to find the next great class of companies usually.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so, his work and what he has going on is usually quite different than the rest of the folks on our team who are executing the day-to-day of the program.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so his updates will look quite different in that, like he's usually usually listing out what events he's going to and what founders he's helping, and what meetings he has, whereas some of us will have to get into more granular detail about something logistically.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or a particular situation that we're dealing with. We're helping a founder overcome something in program itself. So you allow the team members to kind of use it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or however they see fit. I'm less stringent where I don't have protocols for like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: how long it needs to be, or whether it needs to be bulleted or or written out. I tend to be more verbose with my updates and high level, whereas others, like Liliana, will like list out a lot of stuff going on, cause he tends to have a lot of volume with the work that she's doing to managing so many parts and pieces. But it varies.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's Matthew.
Matthieu Bonnard: And then this is great, I think what you said.
Matthieu Bonnard: You know, it's all this requires a lot of discipline, and probably everybody, because if somebody doesn't do everything
Matthieu Bonnard: as you know
Matthieu Bonnard: as what the agreement is, then everything can follow, which, just because which just one person not doing
Matthieu Bonnard: doing the right thing. My question was, could you talk about how you handle things when when things go wrong, when things derail, when things are not on track. I'm personally a big fan of just like.
Matthieu Bonnard: you know, synchronous one on one conversation to to realign things. But you're just curious to hear your your thoughts on. I think that is usually appropriate the synchronous one on one. Conversations are very appropriate when you get to that point.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That being said sometimes you don't always have that luxury right? What if you're operating on very different time zones with someone?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What if you're in very different places, or you have so much going on that you you can only afford to ride it out. You can't find time to be
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because you're working with someone part time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So there's a lot of constraints where it's important to know how to handle it. Synch asynchronously, even if synchronous, is more effective.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I guess the other thing I would say is. I really became a champion of this. Once I became a programmer. Once I started writing code.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and that was the part of the work, in addition to like business and leadership. And being a CEO, then I was like, Oh, I need to make sure that I don't have anything on my calendar this afternoon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: because if I have a bunch of things that break up my ability to focus on what I need to get done from writing software
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that's going to derail my ability to do that at my best. And I'm going to be thinking about those conversations in those meetings instead.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or competing with them in my head.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this way of working is optimized, for I think flow state
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and long, long periods of uninterrupted work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's kind of where I was at with how I designed this, and this is by no means a prescription to all of you to operate this way. I'm demonstrating and sharing my example of how I prefer to work.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: All right, Fleipping.
Goohaus - Felipe Acevedo: and he's
Goohaus - Felipe Acevedo: which which challenges or or assistance have you encounter when when you're implementing this kind of way of working
Goohaus - Felipe Acevedo: these kind of projects management, when when you're management managing leadership teams, you know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: II think the biggest challenge that I face Felipe is been getting buy in
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so one. And and it's more of a challenge I've observed with founders than I have with myself anymore. Because I think I've overcome that challenge to a certain extent. When I'm full functional with my team. It's like I brought you on. You're part of my team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I need you to operate and work this way like I'm gonna demonstrate the benefits of you doing it. So you appreciate it and value it. But it's also an expectation. It's not like, I'm not trying to debate with you about how we're gonna operate like this is how we're gonna operate. So I think, maybe a lot of you will have to overcome that because you'll probably you're dealing with someone that you're trying to.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. Bring on to to like. Keep them happy like. Maybe you have a CTO. Who knows that they're hot shit, and they're like I wanna work like this. And you're like, yeah, but I want the company to work like this. Yeah. But I wanna do this like, okay, all right, how are we gonna balance this out? So you you have to do some some work to make sure that you're on the same page and want the same thing.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But usually you can find that like week. 5 by the way. Side note. I love the call out of loom in the chat. I'll just say
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the founder of Loom.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  Was this young guy who would hang out in Chicago and go to a bunch of Chicago events? Shahid and I know him because he was just like a young kid who was like at the startup events, doing the hackaman's whatever, and I'm so proud of him cause he just told Loom, for I think what 975 million dollars!
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Jed Lassian. Pretty wild. But I love seeing those success stories, especially coming out of Chicago. Cool, all right, I'm almost done. Y'all I promise
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so. Everything is commensible in context. So Liliana alluded to this. This is why we duplicate the calendar events from the Google Calendar
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in basecamp going forward. So next week all of you will are asking about the schedule. I know it's tough, because we're still finalizing a lot of things going into the first week, but once we have it final and you have it all there. It's so helpful to see things in context when you go. What was that event we had in week? 10, let me go back to that workshop that David Cohen taught us how to do fundraising text. Our style.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: which all of you are going to participate in. By the way, which is one of my favorite workshops.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I don't know if you see the Easter egg in the comments from last year. But Nathan, who spoke to y'all yesterday
Neal Sáles-Griffin: was the one who was put up to actually do the fundraising exercise with Cohen in front of.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like hundreds of people who were on that call. Because we do. A big group call with all the textcars classes that are running at the time with David Cohen. So she did it, and arguably did one of the best jobs ever that I've seen, at least in 5 years of holding her own and having a fundraising conversation with an investor who was giving her a hard time in that exercise, so that was really really cool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin:  also, I have this notion of earning the meeting so.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: A lot of the times, you all as founders, and as Ceos, a lot of people are going to want to meet with you, your team.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: other folks outside folks who either want your business, who want to collaborate with you. Whatever the reason, I say, earn the meeting. Is that what work have you done up to that point
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to avoid us, needing to have the meeting. In the first place.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know. Have you asked the right questions? Have you taken the right steps. Have you done the right prep work? Do you have an agenda? Do you know what the goal would be? Have you done everything you can to avoid taking 30 min or 1 h of a bunch of other people's time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: before you need to do this. Usually the way most of us operate is, we use the meeting as like a cover for not having thought through things that we could have thought through already.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or in a different way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I just wanted to challenge you all to question the things that you have on your calendar, and why you have them there. And if you could remove some. If you just take the time to write it out or document it somewhere thoughtfully.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so let me see, I have a few more things to cover here. So one thing I wanted to do is take the time to have a few demonstrations from others about what you have going on this week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So for the remaining time that we have.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would love for you all to prepare. or you might already have it ready.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Prepare a list
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of your to dos for either this week or next week. I know it's the end of the week. So let's just say next week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I can change this actually to say next week. But you're to do for next week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: If you have them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: gather them, put them together. Do you need a few minutes? Should I play a song and let people go find them? Or are they already readily available? There are. They're at your fingertips. What's the appetite here? Who's ready to share right now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Nobody. Oh, Valeria, you got it?
Valeria Brenner: Yeah, my to do list. I use a right now program called Tic Tic, which is just like a check
Valeria Brenner: app. Essentially a checklist app.
Valeria Brenner: Let's see.
Valeria Brenner: I have
Valeria Brenner: quite a bit of stuff to do next week. I wanna like, Oh, my God, okay, yeah, I'll I'll share my screen.
Valeria Brenner: so
Valeria Brenner: overdue. But I'm moving them all to next 3. I wanna so every time I like make changes to the marketing website, I find, like 20 more changes I wanna make.
Valeria Brenner: And so I also there's like
Valeria Brenner: website updates, I know I need to do. And then also just the ones I added here, which is, I wanna like continuously add to the QA. Section.
Valeria Brenner: This one. Actually, I did. So I can actually check up on that. This one. Also I did. But I also wanna add privacy policy and like terms and conditions to our website, just cause like, we haven't done that yet, and that's important. And so it was gonna like, reach out and ask advice about that. Send out more interviews, links for jobs to be done. I have to make sure that, like a mentor of mine, accepts an application for a pitch competition that we got invited to
Valeria Brenner: this is like a marketing research firm and wanted to look into like some of their methodologies out of curiosity. This is like a habit I do every single day where I like message 10 accounts is like a cold reach out just to get more customers so also Utd scheduling after email like a shipping company
Valeria Brenner: like these are all things that are just like, I know I have to do them. And it it looks like a mess, but it makes so much sense in my head when I look at it. And then.
Valeria Brenner: yeah. so that is my really messy to do list.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is awesome. So IIII thank you one for sharing it. And you've inspired something that we're going to do live now. So I'm gonna use your help. You can stop screen sharing, for now. We either may have you come back or adjust. This is what I'm gonna do. Y'all cause it's 1120. We have 40 min, and I'm not gonna keep you all on this call because I have something cool that I want folks to do.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So either Ceos or in collaboration with the CEO other team members. For the remaining time we have. I have a favor to ask. So for those of you who don't know the Ceos all have one dedicated base camp project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what I'm gonna do real quick is I'm gonna show you all that project. I'm gonna screen share real quick. Cause. This is what we're gonna do. Because this is going to help us for the afternoon.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm going to go and set up a tool.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I'm going to add to dues.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm not gonna hold y'all do it. But just for the sake of today, in this example, I'm gonna demonstrate this. So now the Ceos for tech stars, Oakland.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: have a to do section. And I'm going to do a list based on what Valeria just said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Did I get that right? I'm Larry. That's really right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So what I want is a to-do list for each company to exist right here. But what we're gonna do, Google area is we're gonna have you put those to do that you have for next week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We don't have to do anything else. But as a CEO of cruise ship. you have things that you want to get done next week when you start tech stars. Right?
Valeria Brenner: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So by the end of next week. I want to know what the things are between now and the end of next week should be on this list.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what I want to see is that for each of you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and if you take the time to fill that out for the next 30 min
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in your own time in your own way. However, you see fit. You organize them as in whatever way you see fit. You could either drop in what you already have. You can tweak them to reflect what you would want them to be. I don't really care.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but I promise you, if you all do me that song, the Ceos, and you fill out this list, and if you're the CEO isn't on the call, let me know, and we'll find a way to have you fill it out in a different way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but do that. And then when we come back this afternoon. we'll teach you all
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the final phase of this exercise, which is how to actually break down those, to dos into actionable steps that allow you to have more granular and clear pictures for what you're actually trying to get done.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Maybe some of you already know that, and maybe you'll be perfect, and we'll be good to go, and you can just leak.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But I think a lot of you might benefit from seeing us teach this technique to a few of you who would be great examples. I see a question. J. Lo.
Jennifer Loh: okay. So for these to do that, we create on the CEO product board. This is specifically just for the Ceos so, or is it visible.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, as a CEO, you want everyone to get it done right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So a to do for you would be to see if someone else is doing something to make sure that they did it by the end of next week.
Jennifer Loh: Right? So. But
Jennifer Loh: I'm just trying to see how everything's interconnected, because if we have a to do list on our CEO board for Tavares, but we also have our Tavar's Project board with our own to do list.
Jennifer Loh: This is a match.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is new. This is a new space for a new job, Neil.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: your managing director for your Techstairs program, is asking you, J. Lo! CEO,
Neal Sáles-Griffin: to lay out your high level
Neal Sáles-Griffin: goals and or to dos for the next week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's it.
Jennifer Loh: That should reflect all the things that the people in your team are doing
Jennifer Loh: cool. Thank you. Pardon.
Pardo Walter: hey? Can you guys hear me? Okay, cool. I'm a technical solo founder. So I've been using Jira. And I've got like a flood of technical tasks that I would have to.
Pardo Walter: So you just want me to like, give you the abbreviated
Pardo Walter: ticket of what encompasses a lot of the technical tasks that I've been coding completely.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sure, I will say this part, though, I'm down to be overwhelmed and impressed. So so here's an example like it like, just so, you all know, you can create groups
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so we can. We can come up with categories, right? So you can save for different subgroups at your company. You can say, like technical
Neal Sáles-Griffin: goals or tasks
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as a as a as a group, and then you can add another group here and call that like, you know, due diligence
Neal Sáles-Griffin: protect ours.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for example. So you can come up with all the categories that you have things to do in, and then add to dos for each of those right? So you know Llc. To C Corp.
Pardo Walter: Right
Neal Sáles-Griffin: conversion. You know that kind of thing, and you can move these to dos within the groups like that.
Pardo Walter: So I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and give you all this time for the next hour and a half, let's say, or in the next 30 min, however long it's gonna take you any questions about this.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Oh, let me fix that. So pair, anything made it's own like to do section. So I want you to do it here. Yeah, everyone's doing it. That's good. I'm gonna get rid of this tool that you call pair anything, cause that's actually just a to do list.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I'm gonna turn that off. Here we go. Probably gonna get rid of that. There we go. sweet. And now we're in good shape. Now we're rocking. Look at that. They're already doing it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I love this.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, folks, you can drop the the link to what you're looking at right now in the chat.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, no problem when he drops it, only the Ceos will be able to open it. So for other people. It may say that it has an error.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's the length
Neal Sáles-Griffin: great.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay? So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: let me give you the run of show
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for this afternoon. We're gonna go through some examples of what you all have. We're gonna do a breakout group where you're gonna reshape these to dos in the file that we teach, if need be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then we'll do a show and tell. and then we'll debrief and answer any questions. So that's the run of show for the afternoon. but very simply.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what I would love to do before we break, though, is, answer any questions about everything that I talked about, because I covered a lot of ground very quickly.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Matthew.
Matthieu Bonnard: maybe actually something that I don't think you talked about. But curious about
Matthieu Bonnard: how you think about the axis important versus urgent.
Matthieu Bonnard: I try to use the Eisenhower matrix.
Matthieu Bonnard: Ye yeah. Well, just like when I think about my to do. Sometimes. III often try to wonder, you know. Is it important? Is it urgent?
Matthieu Bonnard: And by using this filter to to look at A to do. I sometimes down downgrade a task, because I realize that I thought it was urgent. But in fact, it's not, and it's also not important. So I put it at the bottom at the bottom of the list. So I guess the question is about, how do you prioritize your to do when you have, like your set of of 10 tasks on your to do list.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's great. And that is in part what we're gonna talk about this afternoon, so I'll be sure to answer that question. But let me show you what I think
Neal Sáles-Griffin: might be helpful right now, or maybe you already know this. You've seen it.
Matthieu Bonnard: Yeah, so this is, we actually have. You all do this at the end of winter madness.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So once you've gotten all this feedback and perspective, and you get overwhelmed with all these different thoughts about what you need to be doing or working on, or what you should prioritize. We go through this with you and review it, and we help you actually execute on it, and offer up some feedback and refining it if need be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Was it helpful to run through? This? Was this a good like? So we we made a bet that it would be helpful to cover this before the program starts rather than doing it on a case by case basis or later on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So hopefully, it offers a reset opportunity for you with your team. If you already operate like this, or in some way that you feel good about awesome.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would love to hear more about what works for you, so that I can share it with others and learn from you. But also I'm happy to stick around for as long as you all like for the remaining time to chat things up.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But you all are good to go until this afternoon, and then we'll go through those to dos together and talk through some examples and then maybe break into working groups to refine it further.
Mircea Gogoncea: Can I ask a question?
Mircea Gogoncea: Yeah, please, amazing. So I won't be able. Have a
Mircea Gogoncea: something. I won't be able to join the next group. And I'm the CEO mark cannot see. The to do is because they are in the Ceos group. What's my deadline for when to put the to do together? So you guys can work on that, is it just until that next 30 min? Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you have 30 min. So if you put it in there, there's 2 options, one, you can give your team member the to do list into the Company Base camp project.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: or you can write it in the CEO project, and I'll pull it up for them to like. Give feedback on it. Edit in real time.
Mircea Gogoncea: Great. Alright, thank you so much.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yep.
Sahil Patel: yeah. I'm just trying to schedule some meetings for next couple of weeks. Here, I'm curious about week one if there's
Sahil Patel: kind of an expected time slots that we should be leaving open for tech stars activities. Yeah, I'm actually about to hit send. So probably within 15 min, you guys are, gonna get this in your inbox.
Sahil Patel: Awesome. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: So I'm just gonna send it to the emails that everybody put in the class roster. If there was an issue with that, or you haven't been getting stuff to that email, please let me know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Pardo.
Pardo Walter: Yeah, I just wanted to ask, is there, could you actually go back to the steps that you went through earlier as far as activating that specific to dos feature on base camp. I'm new to the base camp platform. So I'm still not a problem at all.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, let's do it. Let me pull it up again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Okay, so what are we trying to do here?
Pardo Walter: I'll just be. I'll be your guiding hand. I think I saw your earlier like go through the settings and activate the to do feature or something along those lines. Oh, you don't have to do any of that. So all you need to do so. Here you you have access to the CEO's base camp. Right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So you click to dos and you go to New List right here. Got it type in the name of your list. And then you can create your to dos.
Pardo Walter: Okay? Awesome.
Pardo Walter: Yeah. Great. Thank you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Brian.
Brian | Circle+: Quick. Ask you to. You're gonna hop there, whereby you are putting things under like buckets
Brian | Circle+: the categories, you know, like, May, okay, got you got you click that and you click. Add a group.
Brian | Circle+: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sweet.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: all right. Y'all. Well, I'll see you at 10'clock. looking forward to it. Time to get real
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Toodles.
Jennifer Loh: Thank you.
Samarth Gupta: Alright, thank you, Neil.
Matthieu Bonnard: Thank you much.